Solstice Celebration Plan (Version 1)

Tasks for 2023:
- Get a new mixer.
- Get new baking sheets.
- Practice baking springerles.
- Accumulate containers for giving away cookies.
- Make sure you have parchment paper lol.
- Get creamy peanut butter for the peanut butter cookies; the nuts were too much for me.

ANYTHING CHIP COOKIES
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp baking soda
1 tsp salt
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup packed brown sugar
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2 cups whatever kind of morsel
(optional) 1 cup chopped nuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
In a small bowl, combine flour, baking soda, and salt.
In a large mixing bowl, beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract until creamy.

Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Beat in flour mixture gradually.
Stir in morsels and nuts.

Drop onto ungreased baking sheets by rounded tablespoon.
Bake for 9-11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes. Remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Makes about 5 dozen cookies.

VEGAN PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES
1 cup peanut butter (270g), creamy or crunchy (or almond butter)
1 cup coconut sugar or pure cane sugar (192g)
6 tablespoons soy milk, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup flour (120g)
1 teaspoon baking soda**

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a cookie sheet with silicone mat, parchment paper or leave ungreased.

Make the dough: In a large bowl, add the peanut butter and sugar and mix until creamy. Stir in the almond milk and vanilla. Next, add the flour, baking soda, and salt, mix to combine. The dough will be tough to stir, using your hands to mix it together will be easier.

Roll and flatten: Roll into balls, about 1 1/4 inch. Place the balls of dough about 2 1/2 inches apart on a baking sheet. Using the back of a fork, flatten in a crisscross pattern. Optionally, sprinkle with sugar or coarse salt.

Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 10 – 13 minutes (13 minutes will yield a crispier cookie that’s tender inside). Let cool a few minutes, transfer cookies to wire rack and repeat with remaining dough.

Makes 20-24 cookies.

CUT OUT SUGAR COOKIES
1  cup salted butter softened
1  cup  granulated sugar
2 tsp vanilla extract
2 large eggs room temperature
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour*
3/4 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt

Cream together butter and sugar in the bowl of a standing mixer.
Add vanilla and eggs and beat until combined.
Add flour, baking powder and salt and beat until combined.
Divide dough into two equal portions.
Shape each piece of dough into a round, flat disc and wrap tightly with plastic wrap.
Chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours, or overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Line two to four large baking sheets with parchment paper, set aside.
Remove one sugar cookie dough disc from the refrigerator and let it sit at room temperature for 5 minutes to soften slightly.
Place sugar cookie dough on a floured surface and roll to 1/2" or 1/4" thickness (thicker = softer cookies).
Use your favorite cookie cutter shapes and cut out the dough and place them 1" apart on the prepared cookie sheets.
Repeat until all the dough is used. You can gather and re-roll the dough scraps two additional times (3 times total).

SPRINGERLE COOKIES
https://www.daringgourmet.com/authentic-springerle-recipe/